Created a repo on a fileserver.
Cloned it locally.
Navigated Explorer to the repo on fileserver.
Right click to workbench, fileserver repo was not there.
Exit workbench.
Right click and check file status.
Nothing (no changes yet).
Now I THINK I went back to workbench and the fileserver repo showed up.
I clicked on "Check for incoming changes" and got dialog 1.
Dismissed and clicked on "Detect outgoing chagnes" and got dialog 2.

Dialog 1:
<<<<<<<<<
---------------------------
No remote repository URL or path set
---------------------------
<b>No valid <i>default</i> remote repository URL or path has been configured for this repository.<p>Please type and save a remote repository path on the Sync widget.</b>
---------------------------
<nobr></nobr><br />
---------------------------
OK   
---------------------------
>>>>>>>>>>

Dialog 2:
<<<<<<<<<
{{{
#!python
** Mercurial version (2.2.2).  TortoiseHg version (2.4.1)
** Command: --nofork workbench
** CWD: \\smb1.rchland.ibm.com\afshome\dev2000\iop\m04.minn\usr\cmvc\base.pgm
** Encoding: cp1252
** Extensions loaded: 
** Python version: 2.6.6 (r266:84297, Aug 24 2010, 18:13:38) [MSC v.1500 64 bit (AMD64)]
** Windows version: (6, 1, 7601, 2, 'Service Pack 1')
** Processor architecture: x64
** Qt-4.7.4 PyQt-4.8.6
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "tortoisehg\hgqt\workbench.pyo", line 815, in forwarder
  File "tortoisehg\hgqt\repowidget.pyo", line 1066, in outgoing
  File "tortoisehg\hgqt\sync.pyo", line 845, in outgoing
  File "tortoisehg\hgqt\sync.pyo", line 981, in outclicked
  File "tortoisehg\hgqt\sync.pyo", line 774, in run
TypeError: unsupported operand type(s) for +: 'NoneType' and 'str'

}}}
>>>>>>>>>>
