== THG ==

TortoiseHg comes with a simple python application, thg, which allows you to
launch the TortoiseHg dialogs on any platform that supports Mercurial and
PyGtk. This is the easiest way to start using TortoiseHg on [[developers/Linux|Linux]] and [[developers/MacOSX|Mac OS X]].

== Packages ==

You may be able to find RPM and DEB packages on the 
[[http://tortoisehg.bitbucket.org/download/index.html|download]]
page.  If not, please use the source install method.

== From Source ==

**Do NOT run setup.py, it is unnecessary**

# Install Mercurial (consult the chart at [[ReleaseNotes]] for version info)
# Clone the TortoiseHg repository:  {{{hg clone http://bitbucket.org/tortoisehg/thg tortoisehg}}}
# Symlink the thg script into your path:  {{{ln -s /path/to/tortoisehg/thg ~/bin}}}

That is usually all you have to do. You should now be able to launch the TortoiseHg dialogs.  If you move the tortoisehg repository, just remember to update the ~/bin/thg symlink.

* If you want to use the stable branch, run (inside the repository):  {{{hg update stable}}}
* If you want translations, run (inside the repository): {{{python setup.py build_mo}}}

To use the settings tool (repoconfig, userconfig) you must have http://code.google.com/p/iniparse/ installed.

If pygments is installed, the commit tool will provide completions for variable
names in the source file you are previewing.

== Visual Diffs ==

It is recommended %include our mergetools.rc into your ~~/.hgrc file, especially if you use KDiff3 as your merge tool.

{{{
%include /path/to/tortoisehg/contrib/mergetools.rc
}}}

== Tarballs ==

We do not suggest that you run from a tarball, even though we make one available for download.  The tarball is only intended for use by distribution packagers.  We prefer you use a local clone of TortoiseHg instead.   If you do use a tarball, you may need to delete thgutil/config.py* to remove the hard-coded paths.  If you run setup.py from a tarball, you will likely need to edit the installed thgutil/config.py.

== Using thg ==

Running thg without any arguments launches the Workbench.  To see what commands are available, use:

{{{
# thg --help
thg - TortoiseHg's GUI tools for Mercurial SCM (Hg)

basic commands:

 about        about TortoiseHg
 add          add files
...
}}}

thg uses Mercurial's command matching logic to support abbreviated command names.
For instance, //thg ci// will launch the commit dialog.

See the Debugging Dialogs section of [[developers/Debugging]] for debug hints.

== Prerequisites, Versions ==

TortoiseHg Windows packages include Python 2.6.6, Qt 4.7.1, and PyQt 4.8.2

We require a minimum PyQt version of 4.6

TortoiseHg should work on Python 2.4 or later, the same restriction as Mercurial.
 
Consult the chart at the bottom of [[ReleaseNotes]] for Mercurial version info
