Hi, I am sure the following problem is not peculiar to TortoiseHg but I am getting it whenever I try to open the Workbench - be it from the Explorer context menu or from the command line. 
Funny thing is, that when using TortoiseHg 2.3.2, I was able to open WB from the context menu, expanded in desktop; was not able to open it in a specific folder.
Now, when using TortoiseHg 2.4, I am not able to open Workbench at all. Any other features work well.
Here is what I get instead:
{{{
#!python
** Mercurial version (2.2.1).  TortoiseHg version (2.4)
** Command: 
** CWD: C:\
** Encoding: cp1250
** Extensions loaded: graphlog, fetch, mq
** Python version: 2.6.6 (r266:84297, Aug 24 2010, 18:46:32) [MSC v.1500 32 bit (Intel)]
** Windows version: XP Pro (5, 1, 2600, 2, 'Service Pack 3')
** Processor architecture: x86
** Qt-4.7.4 PyQt-4.8.6
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "tortoisehg\hgqt\run.pyo", line 556, in __call__
  File "tortoisehg\hgqt\workbench.pyo", line 1175, in run
  File "tortoisehg\hgqt\workbench.pyo", line 77, in __init__
  File "tortoisehg\hgqt\workbench.pyo", line 1042, in restoreSettings
  File "tortoisehg\hgqt\workbench.pyo", line 891, in _openRepo
  File "tortoisehg\hgqt\workbench.pyo", line 765, in addRepoTab
  File "tortoisehg\hgqt\reporegistry.pyo", line 381, in addRepo
  File "tortoisehg\hgqt\repotreemodel.pyo", line 274, in addRepo
  File "tortoisehg\util\paths.pyo", line 102, in netdrive_status
error: (2138, 'NetUseEnum', 'The workstation has not been started.')
}}}
Although not listed, my Python26/lib/site-directory does contain pywin32 module.

My explorations:
{{{
1) Registry - cleaned, the computer is not infected
2) > net start workstation 
   --> such a service is not configured # Well, what kind of service should be congigured?
3) I suspect that my problem results from an unintentional deleting of some important file.
   # The great question: Which one?
4) Following instructions from Google has led to no good result.
5) I am perplexed. Any help for me?
}}}

Hopefully, Tovim

Heureka three days later: 

The cause of my problem was clearly declared: I have not the workstion service installed.
The solution of this problem in Windows XP Pro - SP3 is as follows:
{{{
Control Panel > Network Connections > Local Network Connection 
here right click on Properties > Install > Client > Add > 
Client for Microsoft Networks / OK
}}}
Easy going with TorotiseHg Workbench again!
Tovim


